+++
title = "Sleep"
author = ["Hosein Naghdbishi"]
date = 2021-08-20T02:24:00+04:30
draft = false
+++

## Better Sleep Tips {#better-sleep-tips}

-   URL: <https://www.ted.com/talks/matt%5Fwalker%5F6%5Ftips%5Ffor%5Fbetter%5Fsleep/transcript?language=en&referrer=playlist-sleeping%5Fwith%5Fscience>


### Regularity {#regularity}

-   Go to bed and wake up at the same time. Brain clock expects
-   **Set to-bed alarm, and that's something that can be helpful.**


### Temperature {#temperature}

-   Sleeping in a cold room is more effective.
-   [Brain](20210110230303-brain.md) and body need to drop their core temperature by about one degree Celsius to initiate and stay asleep.
-   Aim for a room temprature little over 18 degrees Celsius. It sounds cold but cold it must be.


### Darkness {#darkness}

-   We need darkness in the evening to trigger the release of [melatonin](20210110230625-melatonin.md).
-   **Stay away from all screens and dim down half the lights**
-   You can wear an eye mask or you can have blackout shades and that will help best regulate that critical sleep hormone of melatonin.


### Walk it out. {#walk-it-out-dot}

-   Don't stay in bed awake for long periods of time.
-   If you've been trying to fall asleep and it's been 25 minutes or so get up and walk out.
-   This is because your brain has learned the association that the bed is this trigger of wakefulness, and we need to break that association.


### [Impact of alcohol and caffeine](websites/20210110222501-impact_of_alcohol_and_caffeine_on_sleep.md) {#impact-of-alcohol-and-caffeine--websites-20210110222501-impact-of-alcohol-and-caffeine-on-sleep-dot-md}

-   Don't drink unless it's in the morning.


### Have a wind-down routine {#have-a-wind-down-routine}

-   Sleep is not like light switch.
-   It's much more similar to landing a plane. It takes time for your brain to gradually descend down onto the firm bedrock of good sleep. In the last 20 minutes before bed or the last half an hour, even the last hour, disengage from your computer and your phone and try to do something relaxing. Find out whatever works for you and when you have found it, stick to that routine.


### Sleep disorders {#sleep-disorders}

-   are not solved by these tips, see a doctor
